Cash money may refer to: 
The English word "cash" originally meant "money box", and later came to have a secondary meaning "money". This secondary usage became the sole meaning in the 18th century. The word "cash" derives from the Middle French caisse ("money box"), which derives from the Old Italian cassa, and ultimately from the Latin capsa ("box").[3][4] 
"To cash", the verbalization of the noun, means "to convert to cash", as in the expression "to cash a cheque". 
For other uses, see Cash (disambiguation).
The movement towards a cashless society started in the 1990s, transactions that usually would be done by cash, began to be completed with other types of payments.[13] Two decades later, cash was no longer the preferred method of payment.[14] In 2016, the United States User Consumer Survey Study reported that three out of four of the participants favored a debit or credit card payment instead of cash.[15] Some nations have contributed to this trend, by regulating what type of transactions can be conducted with cash and setting limits on the amount of cash that can be used in a single transaction.
Cash has now become a very small part of the money supply. Its remaining role is to provide a form of currency storage and payment for those who do not wish to take part in other systems, and make small payments conveniently and promptly, though this latter role is being replaced more and more frequently by electronic payment systems. Research has found that the demand for cash decreases as debit card usage increases because merchants need to make less change for customer purchases.[8] 
Cash is increasing in circulation. The value of the United States dollar in circulation increased by 42% from 2007 to 2012. The value of pound sterling banknotes in circulation increased by 29% from 2008 to 2013.[10] The value of the euro in circulation increased by 34% from August 2008 to August 2013 (2% of the increase was due to the adoption of euro in Slovakia 2009 and in Estonia 2011
The template Sidebar with collapsible lists is being considered for merging.
A wad of United States dollars
In economics, cash is money in the physical form of currency, such as banknotes and coins. In bookkeeping and finance, cash is current assets comprising currency or currency equivalents that can be accessed immediately or near-immediately (as in the case of money market accounts). Cash is seen either as a reserve for payments, in case of a structural or incidental negative cash flow or as a way to avoid a downturn on financial markets. 
Money, financial currency; the term cash money sometimes disambiguates printed currency from other non-physical financial instruments