Significant American-born opera is a relatively new phenomenon. In sharp contrast to their European counterparts, the few American operas that attract public interest were all composed after the second World War (with the exception of Gershwin’s Porgy and Bess). Indeed, American opera was not established as a genre until the 1950s, although composers of previous generations had made a number of attempts to write a quintessential “American” work. Their compositions failed to win lasting public or critical support, thereby raising questions as to what constitutes American opera. That is, beyond the mere nationality of the composer, what determines an opera’s “nationality”? Is it the subject matter? The libretto? The style? A group of composers in the 1950s and 1960s sought to answer these questions both in words, as many of them wrote journal articles putting forth their views on the topic, and in actions in the form of operas aimed at establishing a unique national repertoire.
This paper will begin by taking a very brief look at the obstacles opera faced in America and the solutions put into place by the composers and producers of the 1950s and 1960s. Above all, we will attempt to define the characteristics of the works of this decisive period via a stylistic analysis of three of its most successful and representative works, looking first at the librettos, then at the music, and finally at the relationship between text and music. 
The Growth of American Opera Despite scattered efforts by Americans to compose opera in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the American public and composers were slow to take to opera. Musical performances were rare in early America, and the few American composers (generally amateurs) who tried their hand at this art form attained at best minimal success, their works earning the reputation of pale imitations of European models. Throughout the nineteenth century, Americans increased in musical competence, and by century’s end, training in Europe had become the norm. The presence of professionally trained composers along with a desire, motivated by national pride, to show Europe that the United States was not culturally inferior, led to the search by the 1920s and 1930s for a unique American operatic idiom. This period produced a series of unremarkable works which have not lasted in the repertoire. However, it is generally acknowledged that the first two truly unique American operas were premiered in 1934The recent decades have witnessed an unprecedented expansion in the volume of unstructured data in digital textual formats. Companies are now starting to recognize the potential economic value lying untapped in their text data repositories and sources, including external ones, such as social media platforms, and internal ones, such as safety reports and other company-specific document collections. Information extracted from these textual data sources is valuable for a range of enterprise application and for informed decision making. In this article we provide a systematic review of the current state of the art in the application of text analytics in industry. Our review is structured along three dimensions: the application context, the methods and techniques utilized, and the evaluation procedure. Based on the review, we identify the different challenges and constraints that an real-world, industrial environment imposes on text analytics techniques, as opposed to their deployment in more controlled, research environments. In addition, we formulate a set of desiderata that text analytics techniques should satisfy in order to alleviate these challenges and to ensure their successful deployment in industry. Furthermore, we discuss future trends in text analytics and their potential application in industry.
the most important sector of the national economy, exercising a decisive influence on the level of development of society’s productive forces. It comprises enterprises (plants, factories, mines, power stations) engaged in the production of implements of labor both for industry itself and for other economic sectors, in the extraction of raw and other materials and fuel, in energy production, in forestry, and in the further processing of industrial or agricultural products.
Industry comprises two large groups of sectors: the extraction industry and the manufacturing (processing) industry. In the USSR, the extraction industry consists of enterprises engaged in the mining of chemical raw materials, ores of ferrous and nonferrous metals and nonore raw material for metallurgy, nonmetallic ores, petroleum, gas, coal, peat, shale, salt, nonore building materials, lightweight natural aggregates, and limestone. The extraction industry also includes hydroelectric power stations, forestry enterprises, enterprises engaged in fishing and the extraction of marine products, and water supply systems. The manufacturing industry comprises enterprises producing ferrous and nonferrous metals, rolled metal products, chemical and petrochemical products, machinery and equipment, wood products and paper and pulp, cement and other building materials, light industry goods, and food products. Enterprises engaged in the repair of industrial goods and thermal electric power stations are also classified in this category.
Industry is also divided into the production of the means of production (group A) and the production of consumer goods (group B). By the accounting and planning method adopted in the USSR, some types of goods are classified entirely in group A (machine tools, equipment, ores of ferrous and nonferrous metals, mineral fertilizers, wood pulp, and the like), and others belong entirely to group B (for example, finished sewn and knitted garments, fish products for human consumption, bread and pastry, refrigerators, radios, and furniture). A number of commodities used for both production and nonproduction purposes (including electrical energy, coal, fabrics, flour, meat, and animal fat) are distributed between group A and group B according to actual use. The output of group A is further subdivided into the means and objects of labor and the means of production for group A industries (engaged in the production of the means of production) and into the means of production for group B industries (producing consumer goods).
Virgil Thomson’s Four Saints in Three Acts and George Gershwin’s Porgy and Bess. Both represented effective, new ways of setting text in English, and both incorporated uniquely American stylistic elements (hymn tunes for the former, and jazz for the latter), not to mention the local flavor given by the South Carolina setting of Gershwin’s opera. Despite their success, the genre had not taken off by the beginning of the second World War. Opera had neither captured the interest of the American public, nor was there a repertoire of works by American composers. Nevertheless, by war’s end, there was a feeling among critics and composers that the U.S. was poised for the creation of its operatic masterpieces, so they made a concerted effort to create the most favorable conditions possible.