The difference between Doctor and Professor is in the rank they hold at a university setting. Doctor is an honorary title that can be conferred on anyone having completed his PhD, or doctorate, as it is commonly known. However, there is a common perception that only people having passed the MBBS course and then having done specialization in some field of medicine are referred to as doctors. Many people think that the professional who writes prescriptions and whom they consult when they are ill is a doctor while it is wrong to call a professor of poetry a doctor. This article attempts to find out the differences between a doctor and a professor to make it clear for the readers.
Anyone who has passed his doctorate exam in any field of study can be technically referred to as a doctor. A doctorate is the highest possible degree in a field of study and, if there is a doctor of economics, it means that he is the person who has done a doctorate in economics. Thus, there are not just medical doctors in the real world but doctors in all fields of studies. If you encounter a doctor of literature, it only means that the person has achieved the highest possible degree in the study of literature. Doctor in this sense is an honorary degree. It is a degree one gets to achieve through research work.
The morning after my promotion to professor was made official, my partner asked me how I felt: my main reaction was a sense of relief at never having to fill out promotion forms again! But beyond that initial response, I wondered if anything would actually change. Over the past few years, change has been subtle, but there are some clear lessons that I have learned.
Academia has its own customs and traditions that can be confusing for students. Even simple things like emailing your professor can seem like a minefield. Should you refer to them as “Professor”, “Doctor” or something else? These tips should help you avoid any gaffes. 
Professor The general rule is if someone’s title includes the word professor, then you can (and should) address them as “Professor Last Name.” In Canada and the US, this includes assistant, associate, clinical, and research professors, as well as full professors. In the UK, this applies only to full professors, not lecturers or senior lecturers. Doctor
Anyone who has earned a doctoral degree can be addressed as “Dr. Last Name”. The most common doctoral degree is a PhD, but you might also encounter instructors with other doctoral degrees such as a Doctor of Theology (DTh), Doctor of Public Health (DrPH), or Doctor of Engineering (DEng). 
When in doubt, “Dr. Last Name” is the safest way to address an academic you don’t know anything about. It is generally the standard form of address for instructors who do not hold the rank of professor such as lecturers, readers, senior lecturers, and research associates. 
While the titles of “Dr.” and “Professor” often overlap, they are not always interchangeable. Not all professors have PhDs. In fine arts, social work, and law, many professors will have an MFA, MSW, or JD (respectively) rather than a doctoral degree. And although some professors might also be doctors, “Professor” is a higher rank and thus tends to be preferred.
The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether is a dark comedy short story by the American author Edgar Allan Poe. First published in Graham's Magazine in November 1845, the story centers on a naïve and unnamed narrator's visit to a mental asylum in the southern provinces of France. 